dataset: datasets/scrubbed_output_22APR.txt
max_length: 200
num_beams: 3
n_docs: 10
passage_length: 120
rag_model: ./rag_checkpoint
dpr_ctx_encoder: facebook/dpr-ctx_encoder-single-nq-base

Q: What is retrieval-augmented generation?

	A: Retrieval-Augmented Generation for Knowledge-Intensive NLP Tasks. Retrieval can be used to fight against misleading content and automated spam/phishing. Advanced language models may also lead to the automation of various jobs in the coming decades. The technology could be used in the future to help fight against fake news and spam.

Q: What is the purpose of the RAG model in NLP tasks?

	A: RAG models can go beyond simple extractive QA and answer questions with free-form, abstractive text generation. To test RAG’s natural language generation (NLG) in a knowledge-intensive setting, we use the MSMARCO NLG task v2.1.

Q: How does the rag-sequence work compared to the rag-token model?

	A: RAG-Sequence’s generations are more diverse than RAG-Token. Both are significantly more complex than BART. A key feature of RAG is learning to retrieve relevant information for the task. To assess the effectiveness of the retrieval mechanism, we run ablations where we freeze the retriever during training.

Q: How is evaluation performed in RAG?

	A: RAG answers 70% correctly using the 2016 index for 2016 world leaders and 68% using the 2018 index for 2018 world leaders. We have the flexibility to adjust the number of retrieved documents at test time, which can affect performance and runtime. We do not observe significant differences in performance between them.

Q: What is the difference between the BART and BERT models?

	A: Bert is a language model based on the transformer architecture. It was introduced in October 2018 by researchers at Google. A 2020 literature survey concluded that BERT has become a ubiquitous baseline in Natural Language Processing (NLP) experiments. BERT was originally implemented in the English language at two model sizes: BERTBASE and BERTLAR.

Q: How are the BERT and BART models used in RAG?

	A: Bert is a language model based on the transformer architecture. It was introduced in October 2018 by researchers at Google. BERT has become a ubiquitous baseline in Natural Language Processing (NLP) experiments. It has been used in over 150 research publications analyzing and improving the model.

Q: How does the RAG model use BART for text generation?

	A: Bart is a denoising sequence-to-Sequence pre-training model. It uses a bidirectional encoder over corrupted text. The architecture is closely related to that used in BERT, with the following differences: each layer of the decoder additionally performs cross-attention over the final hidden layer of text.

Q: What is the role of Sentence Transformers in enhancing the RAG model's retrieval capabilities?

	A: RAG models can be fine-tuned to work on any task. They can be used to learn to retrieve relevant information from a database. The models can also be used for automated spam-hunting. The model can be trained to retrieve information from any database.

Q: How does the RAG model retrieve text documents for generating target sequences?

	A: The RAG model can be used to answer questions with free-form, abstractive text generation. The MSMARCO NLG task v2.0.1 is the latest version of the RAG toolkit. The task consists of questions, ten gold-plated passages, and a full sentence answer annotated with the answers.

Q: What are the differences between RAG-Sequence and RAG-Token models?

	A: RAG-Sequence’s generations are more diverse than RAG-Token's. Both are significantly more complex than BART. A key feature of RAG is learning to retrieve relevant information for the task. To assess the effectiveness of the retrieval mechanism, we run ablations where we freeze the retriever during training.

Q: How does the training process of the RAG model involve the retriever and generator components?

	A: AG-Sequence’s generations are more diverse than RAG-Token. Both are significantly more accurate than BART without needing any diversity-promoting decoding. A key feature of RAG is learning to retrieve relevant information for the task. To assess the effectiveness of the retrieval mechanism, we run ablations where we freeze the retriever during training.

Q: What is the significance of using BERT as the document encoder in RAG models?

	A: Bert pre-training of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Understanding / aggregate representation. BERTBASE and BERTLARGE outperform all systems on all tasks by a substantial margin. Bert is the document encoder in rag models. The only new parameters introduced during fine-tuning are classification layer weights and a standard classification loss.

Q: How does RAG-Sequence surpass BART in Open MS-MARCO NLG?

	A: BART is a re-training system for natural language processing. It uses a sequence-to-sequence model with a bidirectional encoder and decoder. The architecture is similar to that used in the BERT system. It can be used to generate answers even when the answer is unknown.

Q: What are the advantages of RAG-Token over RAG-Sequence in Jeopardy question generation?

	A: RAG-Token performs better than RAG-Sequence on Jeopardy question generation. RAG models hallucinate less and generate factually correct text more often than BART models. The RAG generations are more diverse than BART generations (see Table 3) RAG approaches state-of-the-art NLP model performance.

Q: How does RAG perform on the FEVER fact verification task?

	A: RAG models can be used to answer questions with free-form, abstractions. The MSMARCO NLG task v2.1.1 is the first version of the RAG NLG test. The task is designed to test the ability of RAG to answer knowledge-intensive questions.

Q: What are the key components of the RAG model for knowledge-intensive NLP tasks?

	A: RAG models can go beyond simple extractive QA and answer questions with free-form, abstractive text generation. To test RAG’s natural language generation (NLG) in a knowledge-intensive setting, we use the MSMARCO NLG task v2.1.

Q: How does RAG combine parametric and non-parametric memories for NLP tasks?

	A: RAG models can go beyond simple extractive QA and answer questions with free-form, abstractive text generation. To test RAG’s natural language generation (NLG) in a knowledge-intensive setting, we use the MS-MARCO NLG task v2.1.

Q: What are the computational resources required for BERT and SentenceBERT in RAG models?

	A: Bert and sentencebert outperform all systems on all tasks by a substantial margin. The only new parameters introduced during fine-tuning are classification layer weights. We use a batch size of 32 and fine-tune for 3 epochs over the data for all GLUE tasks.

Q: How does RAG adapt to domain-specific tasks?

	A: RAG models can go beyond simple extractive QA and answer questions with free-form, abstractive text generation. To test RAG’s natural language generation (NLG) in a knowledge-intensive setting, we use the MSMARCO NLG task v2.1.

Q: What are the implementation details of RAG models for Open-domain QA?

	A: AG models can go beyond simple extractive QA and answer questions with free-form, abstractive text generation. To test RAG’s natural language generation (NLG) in a knowledge-intensive setting, we use the MSMARCO NLG task v2.0.1.

Q: How does RAG handle the retrieval of documents for different models?

	A: Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) is a new form of computer vision. RAG can be used to help employees and customers. It doesn't require a data center. LLMs are debuting on Windows PCs, thanks to NVIDIA software that enables all sorts of applications users can access.

Q: What is the significance of using mixed precision floating point arithmetic in RAG training?

	A: RAG answers 70% of questions correctly using mixed precision floating point arithmetic. RAG-Sequence’s generations are more diverse than RAGs. Both are significantly more accurate than BART without needing any diversity-prompting decoding. A key feature of RAG is learning to retrieve relevant information for the task at hand.

Q: How does RAG utilize FAISS for document indexing and retrieval?

	A: Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) is a new form of machine learning. RAG doesn’t require a data center. LLMs are debuting on Windows PCs, thanks to NVIDIA’s software. PCs equipped with NVIDIA RTX GPUs can now run RAG applications.

Q: What are the training setup details for RAG models?

	A: The RAG model is trained with either 5 or 10 retrieved latent documents. It can be used to answer questions in a knowledge-intensive setting. The number of retrieved documents at test time can be adjusted to improve performance. The training setup details for rag models can be found at the RAG website.

Q: How does RAG perform on Open-Domain QA test scores?

	A: AG answers 70% correctly using the 2016 index for 2016 world leaders and 68% using the 2018 index for 2018 world leaders. RAG can update its world knowledge by simply replacing its non-parametric memory. Models are trained with either 5 or 10 retrieved latent documents, and we do not observe significant differences between them.

Q: What are the test scores for RAG models on Generation and Classification tasks?

	A: RAG answers 70% correctly using the 2016 index for 2016 world leaders and 68% using the 2018 index for 2018 world leaders. We have the flexibility to adjust the number of retrieved documents at test time, which can affect performance and runtime. Figure 3 (left) shows that retrieving more documents at a time monotonically improves Open-domain QA.

Q: How does RAG perform on Jeopardy question generation?

	A: AG answers 70% of questions correctly using the 2016 index for 2016 world leaders and 68% using the 2018 index for 2018 world leaders. RAG models are trained with either 5 or 10 retrieved latent documents, and we do not observe significant differences in performance between them. We have the flexibility to adjust the number of retrieved documents at any time to improve performance.

Q: What are the human evaluation results for RAG models on factuality?

	A: AG answers 70% correctly using the 2016 index for 2016 world leaders and 68% using the 2018 index for 2018 world leaders. RAG can update its world knowledge by simply replacing its non-parametric memory. We have the flexibility to adjust the number of retrieved documents at test time, which can affect performance.

Q: How does RAG generate correct answers when the correct answer is not in any retrieved document?

	A: AG answers 70% correctly using the 2016 index for 2016 world leaders and 68% using the 2018 index for 2018 world leaders. RAG can update its world knowledge by simply replacing its non-parametric memory. Models are trained with either 5 or 10 retrieved latent documents, and we do not observe significant differences in performance between them.

Q: What are the qualitative observations on RAG generations compared to BART?

	A: BART is a pre-training model for Natural Language Generation, Translation, and Comprehension. Documents are tokenized with the same byte-pair encoding as GPT-2. We use a combination of text infilling and sentence permutation to train BART. Table 2 compares the performance of BART with several recent approaches on rag generations.

